
.. _accessibility:

---
orphan: true
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description lang=en": "Accessibility Statement for the LFRic core Docs website"
    "keywords": "LFRic, documentation, github template, accessibility, metoffice"
    "property=og:locale": "en-GB"
---

Accessibility statement for the LFRic core Docs website
#######################################################

Details on producing an accessibility statement can be found on the [Central Digital & Data Office government website][CD&DO-site-sample-acc-statement].

This accessibility statement applies to content published on the [metoffice.github.io/lfric_core][github-pages] domain.

This website is run by the [Met Office][metoffice-website]. We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website. For example, that means you should be able to:

- zoom in up to 240% without problems
- change the colours of the site
- navigate most of the website using a keyboard
- navigate most of the website using speech recognition software
- use most of the website using a screen reader on supported browsers
- we’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand

[AbilityNet][abilitynet] has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.

How accessible this website is
------------------------------

We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:

- some links do not clearly explain where they lead, or that they lead to external
  sites.
- there are some external links to websites that may not be accessible.

Feedback and contact information
--------------------------------

If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF,
large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:

- email [CoreCapabilityDevelopmentTeam@metoffice.gov.uk][email]
- raise an issue on the [`lfric_core` GitHub repository][github-issues]

We aim to respond to all reasonable requests for accessible information.

Reporting accessibility problems with this website
--------------------------------------------------

We're always looking to improve the accessibility of this website. If you find any
problems not listed on this page or think we're not meeting accessibility requirements,
email [CoreCapabilityDevelopmentTeam@metoffice.gov.ukus][email], or [raise a GitHub issue][github-issues].

Enforcement procedure
---------------------

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public
Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018
(the 'accessibility regulations'). If you're not happy with how we respond to your
complaint, [contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS)][eass].

Technical information about this website's accessibility
--------------------------------------------------------

The Met Office is committed to making this website accessible, in
accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2)
Accessibility Regulations 2018.

Compliance status
-----------------

This website is partially compliant with the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
version 2.2][wcag] AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.

Non-accessible content
----------------------

The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.

Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations
-------------------------------------------------

- Some links do not clearly explain where they lead, or that they lead to external
  sites. This fails [WCAG 2.1 success criteria 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In
  Context)][wcag-2.2-2.4.4].

Disproportionate burden
-----------------------

- The use of layout tables are due to the use of the
[`sphinx.ext.autosummary`][sphinx-autosummary], and [`sphinx.ext.autodoc`][sphinx-autodoc]
extensions. The API documentation these extensions generate can produce titles that fail [WCAG 2.2 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) (Level AA)][wcag-2.2-1.4.3] checks using certain themes such as dark mode. These are third-party, open source code bases, and so are
beyond the scope of this project to fix, although we will apply updates as this
codebase develops.
- The pages generated by Sphinx contain some duplicate and empty form labels in the header. Most are visually hidden but there are some such as the GitHub etc. icons by the search field which are visible. This fails [WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and Labels][wcag-2.2-2.4.6] and [WCAG 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions][wcag-2.2-3.3.2]. This is a third-party, open source code base, and so is
beyond the scope of this project to fix, although we will apply updates as this
codebase develops.

Content that's not within the scope of the accessibility regulations
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The [Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility
Regulations 2018 legislation][accessibility-legislation] does not require us to fix
external, third-party websites that are neither funded nor developed by, nor under the
control of the Met Office.

How we tested this website
--------------------------

The test was carried out by the LFRic core developers. They used the [WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool][wave], the [lighthouse tool][lighthouse], [axe DevTools on Chrome][axe-dev-tools], and the built-in Chrome and Firefox accessibility dev-tools.

What we're doing to improve accessibility
-----------------------------------------


We always consider accessibility when writing documentation and aim to re-write inaccessible, complex text as we continue development. This website is audited for accessibility at least yearly to highlight potential accessibility issues.

Preparation of this accessibility statement
-------------------------------------------

This statement was prepared on 10 April 2024. It was last reviewed on 10 April 2024.

[CD&DO-site-sample-acc-statement]: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/sample-accessibility-statement/sample-accessibility-statement-for-a-fictional-public-sector-website
[pydata-sphinx]: https://pydata-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html
[metoffice-website]: https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/
[abilitynet]: https://abilitynet.org.uk/
[accessibility-legislation]: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2018/952/regulation/4
[eass]: https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/
[email]: mailto:d.theodorakis@metoffice.gov.uk
[github-issues]: https://github.com/MetOffice/lfric_core/issues/new
[github-pages]: https://metoffice.github.io/lfric_core
[sphinx-autodoc]: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autodoc.html
[sphinx-autosummary]: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autosummary.html
[wave]: https://wave.webaim.org/
[wcag]: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/
[wcag-2.2-2.4.6]: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/headings-and-labels.html
[wcag-2.2-3.3.2]: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/labels-or-instructions.html
[wcag-2.2-1.4.3]: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html
[wcag-2.2-1.3.1]: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships.html
[wcag-2.2-1.3.2]: https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/content-structure-separation-sequence.html
[wcag-2.2-2.4.4]: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context.html
[lighthouse]: https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk
[axe-dev-tools]: https://www.deque.com/axe/devtools/
